Seb/The Removers presents you his "Jaguar image converter". 

This tool offers you to convert images in graphical data usable on the
Atari Jaguar console. It is written in OCaml and uses the library
camlimages. Thus, it should work on any machine where an OCaml
compiler exists.

The output format are RGB16, CRY16 or CLUT images (with RGB16 or CRY16
CLUT).

The input format are those offered by the camlimages library: GIF,
JPEG, PNG, TIFF, BMP, PPM, XPM, PS. Note that on a unix system, it
exists the Image Magick Converter that allows to manipulate dozens of
file formats and you should be able to produce an image readable by
this Jaguar converter.

You can chose either to export an assembly file (composed of dc
directives) or a binary file (that you can include with incbin).

It is a command line tool. You can convert several files at one time.
Here is a typical use of this converter:

./converter.opt --target-dir tmp removers.bmp -cry jagware.tiff -rgb
--no-ascii 1.gif 2.gif

This will produce in the directory tmp four files: removers.s,
jagware.s, 1.rgb and 2.rgb. The file removers.s is a source file that
is the RGB16 conversion of removers.bmp.  The file jagware.s is a
source file that is the CRY16 conversion of jagware.tiff.  The files
1.rgb and 2.rgb are binary files that are the RGB16 conversion of
1.gif and 2.gif.

To have a full list of option, type:

./converter.opt --help

Here is a little description of common options:
  -rgb
   to consider the RGB16 color model
  -cry
   to consider the CRY16 color model
  --assembly (or --ascii)
   to generate an assembly file
  --binary (or --no-ascii)
   to generate a binary file
  --target-dir
   to chose the target directory
  --clut
   to generate a pixel map and a clut (with the current color model)
  --no-clut
   to generate a true color file (with the current color model)
  --opt-clut
   to generate a map with an optimised number of bits per pixel 
   (only when --clut is set)
  --no-opt-clut 
   to generate a 8 bits per pixel map 
   (only when --clut is set)
  --overwrite 
   to overwrite existing files
  --no-overwrite 
   to forbid overwriting of existing files
  --15-bits
    to use only 15 bits (the lower bit is used to indicate which model is in use)
  --16-bits
    to use all the 16 bits
  --gray
    to output only intensities (CRY model)
  --glass
    to output relative CRY values (CRY model)
  --normal
    to ouput normal CRY values (CRY model)
  --positive
    keep only positive coordinates of CRY vectors
  --negative
    keep only negative coordinates of CRY vectors
  --both
    keep all CRY vectors


I would like to thank SCPCD for his little paper on RGB to CRY
conversion and send greetings to the Jagware team, CVSD (especially GT
Turbo), MJJ Prod, Sector One, ... and to the all Atari community.

This software is distributed under the terms of the GPL license.

Resources:
----------
OCaml - http://caml.inria.fr/ 
camlimages library - http://pauillac.inria.fr/camlimages/ 

(Google is your friend!)

Compilation:
------------
To compile, you need:
- ocaml
- ocamlfind
- the camlimages library

Then, to build, simply type

ocamlbuild -use-ocamlfind converter.native
